[MUSIC]
Now that we have the good algorithm,
when all I are at least the big
capacity times epsilon.
Let us analyze this algorithm and
show that its value is close to optimum.
Recall the algorithm.
Solve the item sizes.
Make groups of and.
In each group, round the item sizes,
max item size in the group.
Then we have a reduction and
we can solve the rounded problem.
Let's call it, "u." I is the input, U is
the rounded problem where every
item value is rounded upwards.
And finally,
output the corresponding packing.
How good is it?
The value of the output.
What is it?
If we use the optimal
algorithm to solve this
then the value of
the output is opt of view.
The optimal value for
the rounded items rounded up.
So we must relate opt of
view to opt of the input.
And this, this is the idea.
This is the most important slide for
the analysis of our [INAUDIBLE].
Look at the input.
[INAUDIBLE]
other groups.
Look at U.
We rounded every value upwards.
Up to the maximum of the group.
Consider a different kind of rounding.
Let's call it d.
D like down.
Down instead of rounding
up we round items Down.
Down to what?
Down to the maximum item
in the previous group.
The items in this group
are rounded down to that size.
The items in that group
are rounded down to that size,
and what about the items of this group?
They're rounded down to zero.
So what is D.
D looks like this.
Four items with this size, four items with
that size, and four items with size zero.
How does this help?
Tt helps because?
is monotone.
the optimal value can only increase,
when you increase an item size.
It can only decrease when
you decrease an item size
So, we had our input which
I now draw in the middle.
We have the upward rounding.
This item is rounded up.
We have the downwards rounding.
This item is rounded down.
I is our input.
U is the rounded input upwards.
D is the rounded input downwards.
We don't use D in the algorithm,
we use D for the analysis only.
Observe.
Since increasing sizes
can only increase opt,
when we round down Opt cannot increase.
Opt of d is less than or
equal to opt of i.
When we round up opt can only increase.
Opt of i is less than or
equal to opt of u.
We have sandwiched opt of i
between opt of d and opt of u.
Why is this good?
Now I erase I.
I only look at U and D,
the two rounded inputs.
Look at them, look at this, look at that,
look at this, look at that.
They're almost the same.
It's almost the same input.
Of course this And that correspond,
because they came from
the same input item.
But we can forget about that.
What happens in the end?
U contains n epsilon squared items of
this size, as does input D.
Item of that size, as does input D.
It's almost the same with backing inputs.
What is the difference?
The difference is that
D in addition contains
items of size zero that U does not have.
Well, that's irrelevant,
we don't care about that.
Items of size zero,
they don't change a lot.
And, U...
U also contains some big items.
These items they have size
how much is that size.
We don't know.
It could be at most could
be the maximum size.
The bin capacity, but what we know is the
number of items there is at most squared.
And so What we can write is that
OPT(U) and OPT(D) are almost equal.
Once we have a packing for D, we can
deduce a packing for U that uses as most n
epsilon squared of additional bins,
one for each of these special items here.
And so OPT(U)- OPT(D) is at most And
epsilon squared.
So let's combine these ideas.
OPT(I) is sandwiched between OPT(D) and
OPT(U).
OPT(D) and OPT(U) are very close to one
another, they differ by n epsilon squared.
Therefore OPT of U is at most
OPT of I plus n epsilon squared.
OPT of U, the optimal value of
the rounded items used by the algorithm
is at most the optimal value that
we are hoping to get close to.
Plus n epsilon squared.
So what this shows is that our algorithm
is an approximation algorithm
that is almost optimal.
The additive error is at
most n epsilon squared.
Additive error.
So we still have one step
left in the analysis.
One step left which is to have a relative
error instead of additive error.
So, we need to relate of
X to square opt to I.
That's the last step.
But we are past, at this point,
we're past the main difficulty.
We have related opt of U to opt of I.
This was the main step.
The rest is standard.
But let's do it anyway.
All right, all the items have
values between B and epsilon B.
There are n items.
Because these sizes are large, because
the items are all bigger than epsilon B,
we know that every bin Has at
most one of our epsilon items.
Therefore the number of bins to fit
all the items is at least epsilon n.
OPT has at least epsilon n bins.
And so this term n epsilon squared here.
It's epsilon Times n epsilon.
Except most epsilon times OPT, and
so our is at most epsilon times OPT.
What can we finally Joyfully conclude.
When all sizes are at least epsilon B,
our algorithm, in polynomial time,
gives us a packing with value
at most OPT x 1 + epsilon.
So we have done the analysis
to prove that our algorithm
gives us a near optimal solution.
One plus epsilon times OPT
when all items are large.
In the next section we will finish
this development of algorithms
by getting an approximation algorithm for
the full general case.